
 Introduction to Terminal, Bash Script, and Git

1. Introduction
-   Terminal  : A command-line interface for interacting with the OS via text commands.
2. Bash Script Basics
-   GUI  : Graphical User Interface; uses icons and menus for commands.
-   Shell  : Software that interprets commands typed into the terminal.
-   Why Learn Bash?  
  - Control all OS tasks not possible via GUI.
  - Utilize powerful features like piping (e.g., `cd classFolder | ls -lt | head`).
-   Bash  : Bourne Again SHell; a widely used command-line interpreter.
      install git or Cygwin
      git Bash:https://git-scm.com/download/win
    Using gitbash on vs code 
     open the terminal
     open command pallet
     write select default profile
     select bash

3. Essential Bash Commands
- pwd  : Prints the current directory path.
-   cd  : Changes the current directory.
-   ls  : Lists contents of the current directory.
-   mkdir  : Creates a new directory.
-   touch  : Creates a new file.
-   echo  : Prints or creates files with specified text.
-   mv  : Moves or renames files/directories.
-   rm/rmdir  : Removes files/directories (with `-r` for non-empty).
-   grep  : Searches for strings in files.
-   chmod  : Changes file permissions.


ls -l


4. Introduction to Git
        Git is a Version Control System
-   Version Control  : Tracks changes in files, enabling collaboration.
-   .git Directory  : Stores project information (history, branches).
-   Git can be accessed via terminal commands or desktop app
-   Creating a Git Repository  : Use `git init` or `git clone`.

5. Git Workflow
-   Cloning  : Copying a remote repository.
-   Committing  : Saving changes locally (`git commit -m "message"`).
-   Pulling  : Updating local repo with changes from central repo.
-   Pushing  : Uploading local changes to the remote repo.

6. Forking and Pull Requests
-   Forking  : Copying a repo to make independent changes.
-   Pull Request  : Request to merge changes back into the original repo.

7. Conclusion
- Mastering Bash and Git enhances development efficiency and collaboration.



